Server side Events in FastAPI are implemented using an asynchoronus generator and 
StreamingResponse Object. 

The StreamingResponse object allows the server to push real-time, undirectional updates to the client 
over a single, persistent HTTP connection. 

This approach enables to create live feeds, notifications and dashboards where data flows from server to client side. 

Key Benefits of Server Side events in FastAPI 

1. Unidirectional data flow -> data flows are one way from the server to the client only unlike WebSockets. 


2. Standard HTTP - SSE works over regular HTTP so that connectivity with firewall and proxy server can work. 

3. Automated reconnection procedure - The client browser's has a built-in EventSource API which 
automatically can handle the reconnection if the connection drops providing the application resilience. 

4. Text based Message format - data: and ending with two newline characters ("\n\n") to signal the event of event chunk. 


CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) Real time Benefits 

1. CORSMiddleware class offers specific parameters to control access like - 

a) Allows origins to make the specific request. ["*"] denotes that it allows all type origins. But not recommended in real time. 

b) Allow credentials - a boolean value can be defined enabling support for HTTP response cookies and authorization
headers. Defaults to false. if specified allow_origins is ["*"] then allow_credential should be false. 

c) allow_methods - Defines the permitted HTTP methods, defaults to "GET" but "["*"] is common. 

d) allow_headers - lists the supported request headers, default is empty ["*"] allows all values. 

e) Expiration time (max_age) = sets the cache duration for preflight requests. 

CORS preflight request is an automatic priliminary HTTP options request sent by the client browser to a server before 
the actual cross-origin request is made. 

Benefits / scenario to apply preflight request for CORS 

1. It helps the server to validate the CORS protocol and options whether the server will permit the actual CORS 
request ensuring that the target server is aware of the "CORS-aware" and not being vulnerable to the requests for any 
specific content-type or custom headers sent by the client. 

2. Preflight request also helps to check from client side before triggering the actual request to server whether the HTTP 
methods to be used (other than GET, POST, HEAD) -> PUT, DELETE, PATCH etc. would be accepted or not. 

3. Server can also validate before making actual request the custom headers (authorization, (OKTA, Entra ID, OAuth2 etc.) 

4. Server can also check if the requested Content-Type header other than traditional "application/x-www-form-urlencoded", 
" multipart/form-data" or "text/plain" since "application/json" common type of Content-Type header in FastAPI. 

 